docs: add page on authorization strategies (#4396)
graphql/graphql-js: website/pages/docs/authorization-strategies.mdx

---
title: Authorization Strategies
---

GraphQL gives you complete control over how to define and enforce access control. 
That flexibility means it's up to you to decide where authorization rules live and 
how they're enforced.

This guide covers common strategies for implementing authorization in GraphQL 
servers using GraphQL.js. It assumes you're authenticating requests and passing a user or 
session object into the `context`.

## What is authorization?

Authorization determines what a user is allowed to do. It's different from 
authentication, which verifies who a user is.

In GraphQL, authorization typically involves restricting:

- Access to certain queries or mutations
- Visibility of specific fields
- Ability to perform mutations based on roles or ownership

## Resolver-based authorization

> **Note:**  

> > All examples assume you're using Node.js 22.7 or later with [ES module (ESM) support](https://nodejs.org/api/esm.html) enabled.

Reviewer: Let's say 20

```suggestion
> All examples assume you're using Node.js 20 or later with [ES module (ESM) support](https://nodejs.org/api/esm.html) enabled.
```

  requireUser(user);
  if (user.role !== role) {
    throw new Error(`Must be a ${role}`);
  }
}
```

You can use these helpers in resolvers:

```js
import { requireRole } from './auth.js';

export const resolvers = {
  Mutation: {
    deleteUser: (parent, args, context) => {
      requireRole(context.user, 'admin');
      return deleteUser(args.id);
    },
  },
};
```

This pattern makes your access rules easier to read, test, and update.

## Field-level access control

You can also conditionally return or hide data at the field level. This 
is useful when, for example, users should only see their own private data:

```js
export const resolvers = {
  User: {
    email: (parent, args, context) => {
      if (context.user.id !== parent.id && context.user.role !== 'admin') {
        return null;
      }
      return parent.email;
    },
  },
};
```

Returning `null` is a common pattern when fields should be hidden from
unauthorized users without triggering an error.

## Declarative authorization with directives

If you prefer a schema-first or declarative style, you can define custom
schema directives like `@auth(role: "admin")`:

```graphql
type Query {

>   users: [User] @auth(role: "admin")

Reviewer: We should probably show how this directive is implemented

}
```

GraphQL.js doesn't interpret directives by default, they're just annotations.
You must implement their behavior manually, usually by:

- Wrapping resolvers in custom logic
- Using a schema transformation library to inject authorization checks

Directive-based authorization can add complexity, so many teams start with
resolver-based checks and adopt directives later if needed.

## Best practices

- Keep authorization logic close to business logic. Resolvers are often the
right place to keep authorization logic.
- Use shared helper functions to reduce duplication and improve clarity.
- Avoid tightly coupling authorization logic to your schema. Make it
reusable where possible.
- Consider using `null` to hide fields from unauthorized users, rather than
throwing errors.
- Be mindful of tools like introspection or GraphQL Playground that can

> expose your schema. Use case when deploying introspection in production

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expose your schema. Use caution when deploying introspection in production
```

---
title: Authorization Strategies
---

GraphQL gives you complete control over how to define and enforce access control. 
That flexibility means it's up to you to decide where authorization rules live and 
how they're enforced.

This guide covers common strategies for implementing authorization in GraphQL 
servers using GraphQL.js. It assumes you're authenticating requests and passing a user or 
session object into the `context`.

## Before you start

All code examples in this guide use modern JavaScript with [ES module (ESM) syntax](https://nodejs.org/api/esm.html).  
To run them in Node.js, make sure to:

- Add `"type": "module"` to your `package.json`, or
- Use the `.mjs` file extension for your files

> These features are supported in Node 12+ and fully stable in Node 16 and later.

Author: @JoviDeCroock hello! @benjie and I were chatting today about using ESM syntax for JS code snippets. I used them here, and added this "Before you start" section to help readers with using them. 

Thoughts? Open to all suggestions, this is a just a first pass on how we might approach converting all the JS snippets to ESM syntax

Reviewer: Yes, it's a great shout! Let me run an LLM to get this going in https://github.com/graphql/graphql-js/pull/4400

```graphql
type Query {
  users: [User] @auth(role: "admin")
}
```

To enforce this directive during execution, you need to inspect it in your resolvers
using `getDirectiveValues`:

```js
import { getDirectiveValues } from 'graphql';

function withAuthCheck(resolverFn, schema, fieldNode, variableValues, context) {
  const directive = getDirectiveValues(
    schema.getDirective('auth'),
    fieldNode,
    variableValues
  );

  if (directive?.role && context.user?.role !== directive.role) {
    throw new Error('Unauthorized');
  }

  return resolverFn();
}
```

You can wrap individual resolvers with this logic, or apply it more broadly using a
schema visitor or transformation.

GraphQL.js doesn't interpret directives by default, they're just annotations.
You must implement their behavior manually, usually by:

- Wrapping resolvers in custom logic
- Using a schema transformation library to inject authorization checks

Directive-based authorization can add complexity, so many teams start with
resolver-based checks and adopt directives later if needed.

## Best practices

- Keep authorization logic close to business logic. Resolvers are often the

> right place to keep authorization logic.

Reviewer 2: This does not feel like the right messaging to me; in general we encourage that authorization logic should be _inside_ the business logic, and that resolvers _should not_ be used for authorization. You should be able to expose the same business logic over GraphQL, REST, RPC, or any other API approach without having to re-implement authorization - GraphQL is just a method of access to these underlying methods. 

From https://graphql.org/learn/authorization/:

> Defining authorization logic inside the resolver is fine when learning GraphQL or prototyping. However, for a production codebase, delegate authorization logic to the business logic layer. 

We also highlight this approach in the ["thinking in graphs" article](https://graphql.org/learn/thinking-in-graphs/#business-logic-layer):

> ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0a057f38-8d75-4a37-9499-fb81f74e33da)
